Hello and welcome to Artificial Intelligence.
Here we're using artificial intelligence to help us create unit testing code.
Now, incorporating AI into game development can streamline development and testing.
Some of the benefits are included here, and we're going to focus on automated testing.
AI can rapidly identify and fix your bugs, and it can reduce test creation time.
Now, the traditional approach without any AI would be to create your production code.
And then if you're going to embrace unit testing to manually create those tests as you go.
We've seen in the previous video how AI can help us create our production code for some or all of a
game system.
Now let's take a look at how AI can help us automate the process of creating our unit testing.
We have an existing chat GPT chat, open with how we created the production code.
Now it's very important that I continue within this exact same chat when I begin to ask the next questions
about unit testing.
If, for example, I wanted to create a brand new chat here, I would need to reintroduce the context,
perhaps saying, hey, can you create me unit testing for this class and then paste in the class or
classes that are related?
But because we've already got context here, I'll use this.
So from the previous section, the I created us an example here of using a product manager class, adding
some products to it.
You could imagine this being a product being sold in a game store, or an NPC character who has a shop
that perhaps gives you items or puts them in your inventory, something like that.
And above that, in the same chat we have the I create us the product manager itself.
So the product manager has created an I and the example on top of it.
Now let's ask it to give us some tests.
What I'm going to do is paste in an edit mode test that I already have so that it knows the namespace
and naming that I like, and then ask it to fill that with relevant tests.
Let's see how it goes here.
Inside unity I've got an I test and I playmode test.
Let's just do the edit mode test here.
So here it is.
Here we can see it's got one test called my test.
We open up the source code and we see it here.
It's got the namespace that I like.
It's got usings I assume the category.
So rather than asking ChatGPT to create us something from complete scratch, I'm going to give it this
here.
I think I'll get rid of the naming here.
So that I don't suggest that part.
So back here in ChatGPT, I'm going to say great.
Now I want unit testing on top of the product Manager class.
Create a new response with one test class with one or more test methods.
Start with this code.
Let's take a look at the response.
To create unit tests for the Product Manager class, you can use any unit a popular testing framework
for.
Net.
Below is an example of the test class.
We can see that it used the namespace, the comments, the category test name, all things that I gave
it.
Then it does the rest on its own.
Now one thing I notice is that it's creating one.
It's creating one variable here that is going to populate in the setup and maybe tear down later.
Actually, it doesn't do the tear down.
Then here what it does in each of the tests is it uses the arrange, act and assert, which happens
to match my particular preference.
So I like that it was just guessing that based on popularity as a general solution there, if somehow
I had a different way that I wanted to go about this, I could instruct that.
But I like that so far.
So it sets up the test product, it adds the product, and then it makes sure that the get product returns
that particular product.
So that looks good.
Then it tests how to remove a product.
So it goes to create a product and add it.
Then to remove it, then to make sure that it actually worked there.
And that it does not have that product in it like that.
Get products, returns all products.
So it does two and it knows two.
Now, this would be a great step for me to paste this into unity and make sure it works.
I'm going to do that.
And then I'll come back and think, is there another test that it could add, or is there some refactor
to the code that we could do just to play with it a little bit more?
But I like where this is going.
So let's paste this into unity.
Save it inside unity looks like it compiles and inside unity looks like it's running.
Let's run the test.
All the tests pass.
Now.
The test names that it gave us.
Great.
It doesn't happen to match my particular style and I can decide at this point, adopt what gives me
or suggest a difference.
So just to play with the idea here, I'm going to suggest that use a slightly different naming scheme.
But I love the test that gave me and I love that they all pass.
So we're doing really good so far.
Let's go back and just play with the idea of giving some small suggestion and see it iterate one more
time.
So let's tell it what works great.
That works and compiles and all tests pass.
However, I don't like the test method naming, so please change from the format of add product.
Add products to list to a new format like Add product.
Get products contains product when product added.
I generally like to follow something like the method under test the expected result, and then when
this particular thing happens, sometimes the naming gets a little bit long as shown here.
Sometimes it's not the clearest.
It really depends on the context.
But moreover, what I'm showing here is that I like most of what ChatGPT gave me.
But I want to suggest a change.
So let's just play with this as the change and see what result we get.
Let's take a look at the result.
It says certainly renaming looks good.
It mentions that it's inferring method, name, condition, expected result.
I actually think expected result then condition.
But let's take a look at the results here.
So again I admit this is pretty long.
But add product get products contains the product.
When the product is added, great.
Here's an even longer one.
Get product does not.
Now you could argue that this isn't the best naming scheme, which as I'm seeing this long name here,
I'm thinking, hey, maybe it's not a good one, but what we've seen is that we're able to bounce back
and forth and give a little bit of a suggestion and see that ChatGPT works well.
So we'll copy this into the unity and see how it works.
So here we are.
It's in unity.
It's compiled.
And let's run the tests.
And everything looks good there.
So we've seen a fantastic use case of artificial intelligence, not just to make production code as
we did in the earlier lesson, but also to create new unit tests on top of that production code.
Here, at least in our simple demo, we've seen unity compiled the code every single time with no problems,
and all of our tests passed.
If you would find that the code didn't compile, you could tell ChatGPT.
Hey, that was pretty good, but I got this error and you would be helping to educate it and give you
a better answer.
We didn't need to do that here.
Also, if some or all of the tests failed, you could tell unity that I generally don't see that the
tests fail, but it is possible.
So that's it here.
We've seen a fantastic use case for AI in unit testing.
Thanks.